README.md, before:

# Niri Setup for CachyOS

Easy-to-deploy niri configuration and application setup for CachyOS installations.

This setup includes:
- **202** official repository packages (system-agnostic) including greetd
- **Hardware-specific drivers** (GPU/CPU microcode - automatically detected!)
- **4** AUR packages (including dms-shell-git and greetd-dms-greeter-git)
- **14** flatpak applications
- **greetd + DMS greeter** (beautiful graphical greeter with niri compositor)
- Complete niri configuration with named workspaces and auto-launched applications
- **DMS configuration with 6 pre-installed plugins**
- **11 desktop wallpapers** included
- Limine bootloader with secure boot support
- **Automatic hardware detection** (GPU/CPU drivers, ASUS laptops)
- **Automatic monitor configuration** (first-run + manual keybinding)
- **Optional hibernation support** (40GB swap file with custom resume hooks)
- **DMS lock screen** (manual + auto-lock + YubiKey 2FA support)

## Prerequisites

1. **CachyOS CLI Installation**: Install CachyOS as a minimal CLI system using the CachyOS installer
2. **Limine Bootloader**: Select Limine as your bootloader during installation
3. **Secure Boot** (Optional): See [SECURE_BOOT.md](SECURE_BOOT.md) for detailed secure boot setup

## Quick Start

After completing CachyOS CLI installation and booting into your minimal system:

```bash
# Clone this repo (replace URL with your repository address)
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/yourrepo.git ~/niri-setup
cd ~/niri-setup

# Run the installer - it will automatically detect and install drivers!
./install.sh
```

The installer will automatically detect your CPU (AMD/Intel) and GPU(s) (NVIDIA/AMD/Intel) and install the appropriate drivers with your confirmation.

## What This Does

The install script will:

1. **Install AUR Helper**: Sets up `paru` if you don't have `paru` or `yay` installed
2. **Install Official Packages**: Installs packages from official CachyOS/Arch repos (including Niri, Wayland essentials, greetd)
3. **Detect & Install Hardware Drivers**: Automatically detects CPU/GPU and installs appropriate drivers
4. **Install AUR Packages**: Installs packages from the AUR (including dms-shell-git, greetd-dms-greeter-git)
5. **Install Flatpaks**: Installs flatpak applications from Flathub
6. **Configure greetd**: Sets up greetd with DMS greeter for beautiful graphical login
7. **Setup Configs**: Symlinks `.config/niri` to your home directory with full Niri + DMS configuration
8. **Deploy DMS Configuration**: Copies DMS settings and pre-installed plugins
9. **Deploy Wallpapers**: Copies 11 desktop wallpapers to ~/Pictures/Wallpaper
10. **ASUS Laptop Support** (optional): Auto-detects ASUS laptops and offers to install asusctl, rog-control-center
11. **Hibernation Setup** (optional): Prompts to configure hibernation with 40GB swap file

On first niri login:
12. **Auto-Configure Monitors**: Automatically detects and configures all connected displays

## File Structure

```
.
├── install.sh                # Main installation script
├── packages-official.txt     # Official packages (201 packages, system-agnostic)
├── packages-hardware.txt     # Hardware-specific drivers (GPU/CPU - auto-detected!)
├── packages-aur.txt          # AUR packages (4 packages)
├── flatpaks.txt              # Flatpak applications (14 apps)
├── .config/
│   ├── niri/
│   │   ├── config.kdl        # Main niri configuration with named workspaces
│   │   ├── scripts/
│   │   │   └── configure-monitors.sh  # Automatic monitor configuration
│   │   └── dms/              # Modular config files
│   │       ├── alttab.kdl    # Alt-tab window switcher styling
│   │       ├── binds.kdl     # DMS keybindings
│   │       ├── colors.kdl    # Color scheme
│   │       ├── layout.kdl    # Layout settings
│   │       └── wpblur.kdl    # Wallpaper blur rules
│   └── DankMaterialShell/    # DMS configuration
│       ├── settings.json     # DMS settings (sanitized)
│       ├── plugin_settings.json  # Plugin configuration
│       └── plugins/          # 6 pre-installed plugins
├── etc/                      # System configuration templates
│   ├── greetd/              # greetd configuration
│   ├── asusd/               # ASUS laptop configuration
│   ├── systemd/             # Power management & hibernation config
│   └── initcpio/            # Custom hibernation resume hooks
├── scripts/
│   └── setup-hibernation.sh  # Optional hibernation setup script
├── wallpapers/              # 11 desktop wallpapers (6MB)
├── CLAUDE.md                # Repository guidance for AI assistants
├── SECURE_BOOT.md           # Detailed secure boot setup guide
├── TROUBLESHOOTING.md       # Troubleshooting guide
└── README.md                # This file
```

## Automatic Hardware Detection

The installation script automatically detects your hardware and installs the appropriate drivers:

**What gets detected:**
- **CPU**: AMD or Intel (installs appropriate microcode)
- **GPU(s)**: NVIDIA, AMD, and/or Intel (installs appropriate drivers)
- **Hybrid setups**: Automatically handles systems with multiple GPUs (e.g., Intel iGPU + NVIDIA dGPU)

**During installation:**
1. The script detects your hardware
2. Shows you what will be installed
3. Asks for confirmation before installing drivers
4. You can skip automatic detection and manually configure if needed

**Manual Override (if needed):**
If automatic detection fails or you want manual control, you can edit `packages-hardware.txt` to uncomment specific drivers, and the script will respect your manual selection.

## Automatic Monitor Configuration

The setup includes automatic monitor detection and configuration:

**First Run (Automatic):**
- On your first niri login, monitors are automatically detected
- Configuration is generated based on your displays
- Applied automatically (no confirmation needed on first run)

**Manual Re-configuration (Keybinding):**
- Press **Mod+Shift+M** to detect and reconfigure monitors anytime
- Useful when:
  - Connecting/disconnecting external displays
  - Changing monitor arrangement
  - Updating refresh rates
- Shows what will be configured and asks for confirmation

**What it does:**
- Detects all connected monitors via `niri msg outputs`
- Generates appropriate output configuration with correct resolutions and refresh rates
- Positions monitors side-by-side automatically
- Backs up your config before applying changes
- Reloads niri configuration automatically

**Manual Configuration (if needed):**
If you prefer manual control, you can still edit `~/.config/niri/config.kdl` (lines 9-32) and the auto-configuration will be skipped after first run.

## Customization

### Adding/Removing Packages

Edit the appropriate file to add or remove packages:
- `packages-official.txt` - Official Arch repository packages (system-agnostic)
- `packages-hardware.txt` - Hardware-specific GPU/CPU drivers (reference/manual override only - auto-detected by default!)
- `packages-aur.txt` - AUR packages
- `flatpaks.txt` - Flatpak applications

Lines starting with `#` are comments and will be ignored.

**Note:** Hardware drivers are automatically detected during installation, so you don't need to edit `packages-hardware.txt` unless you want to manually override the automatic detection.

### Modifying Configs

Your niri config is symlinked from this repo, so you can:

1. Edit configs in this directory
2. Commit and push changes
3. Pull on other machines and configs update automatically

Or edit at `~/.config/niri/` and changes will reflect here.

## Fresh Install Workflow

### 1. CachyOS CLI Installation

1. Boot from CachyOS installation media
2. Run the CachyOS CLI installer
3. **SKIP** desktop environment selection (we'll install Niri manually)
4. Select **Limine** as your bootloader
5. Complete base system installation
6. Reboot into your minimal CLI system

### 2. Optional: Configure Secure Boot

See [SECURE_BOOT.md](SECURE_BOOT.md) for detailed instructions on setting up secure boot with Limine.

### 3. Install Niri + DMS

```bash
# Ensure git is installed (should be from base install)
sudo pacman -S --needed git

# Clone this repo
git clone <your-repo-url> ~/niri-setup
cd ~/niri-setup

# STEP 1: Run installation script (hardware auto-detected!)
./install.sh
# The script will:
# - Detect your CPU and GPU(s)
# - Show you what drivers will be installed
# - Ask for confirmation before installing
# - Configure greetd with DMS greeter
# - Optionally set up hibernation and ASUS laptop support

# STEP 2: Reboot your system
reboot

# STEP 3: greetd with DMS greeter starts automatically
# Beautiful graphical login screen powered by DMS and niri
# Simply log in and niri will start

# STEP 4: Monitors configured automatically!
# On first login, monitors will be detected and configured automatically
# Use Mod+Shift+M anytime to re-detect and reconfigure monitors
```

## Syncing to New Machine

```bash
cd ~/niri-setup
git pull
./install.sh
```

The script will:
- Skip packages already installed
- Update symlinks if needed
- Backup existing configs before replacing

## Optional Features

### Hibernation Support

The installer offers optional hibernation setup with:
- **Auto-sized swap file** (RAM + 10% buffer) on btrfs subvolume
- **Custom initramfs hooks** for reliable resume from encrypted swap
- **Suspend-then-hibernate** (2 hour delay)
- **Lid closure integration**
- **Power management** optimized for laptops

**Requirements**: LUKS encryption, Limine bootloader, sufficient free disk space

To set up hibernation later:
```bash
sudo ~/niri-setup/scripts/setup-hibernation.sh
```

### ASUS Laptop Support

The installer auto-detects ASUS ROG laptops and offers to install:
- **asusctl** - ASUS control utility (RGB keyboard, fan profiles, etc.)
- **rog-control-center** - GUI for ASUS settings
- **supergfxctl** - GPU switching control

Includes pre-configured settings for optimal power management and RGB control via `Mod+F4` keybinding.

### Desktop Wallpapers

11 high-quality wallpapers (6MB total) are included and deployed to `~/Pictures/Wallpaper/`.

**Browse wallpapers**: Press `Mod+Y` to open the DMS wallpaper browser and select from the included wallpapers or add your own.

## DMS (DankMaterialShell) Integration

This setup uses **DMS** (dms-shell-git from AUR) as the desktop shell for Niri:

**DMS Provides**:
- Panel/status bar
- Spotlight launcher (`Super + Space`)
- Clipboard manager
- Process list
- Settings/control center
- Notifications
- Lock screen (manual + auto-lock)

**Lock Screen**:
- **Manual Lock**: Press `Mod+Alt+L` to lock immediately
- **Auto-lock**: Automatically locks after 10 minutes of inactivity
- **Before Sleep**: Automatically locks before system suspend/sleep
- Managed by `swayidle` + DMS lock integration

**Auto-startup**: DMS is managed by systemd user service (dms.service) for reliable startup

**DMS Configuration**: The installer deploys:
- Sanitized settings.json with recommended defaults
- 6 pre-installed plugins (asusControlCenter, calculator, commandRunner, etc.)
- Plugin configuration ready to use

**Note**: Most keybindings in this config use `dms ipc call` commands. If DMS is not installed, these keybindings won't work.

## Post-Installation Features

### Automatic Monitor Configuration

Monitors are configured automatically on first login! No manual configuration needed.

**Keybindings:**
- **Mod+Shift+M**: Detect and reconfigure monitors anytime
  - Useful when connecting/disconnecting displays
  - Automatically detects resolution and refresh rate
  - Positions monitors side-by-side

**Manual configuration (optional):**
If you prefer to manually configure monitors, edit `~/.config/niri/config.kdl` (lines 9-32).

### Optional Customizations

After installation, you may also want to:

- Adjust DMS theming and settings (Mod+Comma for settings)
- Configure your terminal emulator (default: kitty)
- Set up wallpaper (via DMS settings: Mod+Y)
- Review and customize keybindings in `~/.config/niri/config.kdl`

## Backup

Your original niri config (if any) is backed up to:
```
~/.config/niri.backup.YYYYMMDD_HHMMSS
```

## Troubleshooting

**niri won't start**: Check logs with `journalctl --user -u niri`

**Missing packages**: Ensure AUR helper is working: `paru --version`

**Config not updating**: Check symlink: `ls -la ~/.config/niri`

## Repository Setup

To track this as a git repository:

```bash
cd ~/niri-setup
git init
git add .
git commit -m "Initial niri setup"
git remote add origin <your-git-url>
git push -u origin main
```

## License

Feel free to use and modify as needed.

Commit message:

fix: add users to asus-users group for ASUS hardware control
ASUS Hardware Support:
- Automatically create asus-users group if it doesn't exist
- Add current user to asus-users group during installation
- Required for controlling RGB keyboard, fan profiles, and other features
- Notify user that logout/login is required for group changes

Documentation Updates:
- Added troubleshooting section for ASUS permission issues
- Updated README with asus-users group information
- Explained group membership requirement in installation docs

Without this group membership, users would get permission denied errors
when trying to use asusctl commands for RGB control, fan profiles, etc.

README.md, after:

# Niri Setup for CachyOS

Easy-to-deploy niri configuration and application setup for CachyOS installations.

This setup includes:
- **202** official repository packages (system-agnostic) including greetd
- **Hardware-specific drivers** (GPU/CPU microcode - automatically detected!)
- **4** AUR packages (including dms-shell-git and greetd-dms-greeter-git)
- **14** flatpak applications
- **greetd + DMS greeter** (beautiful graphical greeter with niri compositor)
- Complete niri configuration with named workspaces and auto-launched applications
- **DMS configuration with 6 pre-installed plugins**
- **11 desktop wallpapers** included
- Limine bootloader with secure boot support
- **Automatic hardware detection** (GPU/CPU drivers, ASUS laptops)
- **Automatic monitor configuration** (first-run + manual keybinding)
- **Optional hibernation support** (40GB swap file with custom resume hooks)
- **DMS lock screen** (manual + auto-lock + YubiKey 2FA support)

## Prerequisites

1. **CachyOS CLI Installation**: Install CachyOS as a minimal CLI system using the CachyOS installer
2. **Limine Bootloader**: Select Limine as your bootloader during installation
3. **Secure Boot** (Optional): See [SECURE_BOOT.md](SECURE_BOOT.md) for detailed secure boot setup

## Quick Start

After completing CachyOS CLI installation and booting into your minimal system:

```bash
# Clone this repo (replace URL with your repository address)
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/yourrepo.git ~/niri-setup
cd ~/niri-setup

# Run the installer - it will automatically detect and install drivers!
./install.sh
```

The installer will automatically detect your CPU (AMD/Intel) and GPU(s) (NVIDIA/AMD/Intel) and install the appropriate drivers with your confirmation.

## What This Does

The install script will:

1. **Install AUR Helper**: Sets up `paru` if you don't have `paru` or `yay` installed
2. **Install Official Packages**: Installs packages from official CachyOS/Arch repos (including Niri, Wayland essentials, greetd)
3. **Detect & Install Hardware Drivers**: Automatically detects CPU/GPU and installs appropriate drivers
4. **Install AUR Packages**: Installs packages from the AUR (including dms-shell-git, greetd-dms-greeter-git)
5. **Install Flatpaks**: Installs flatpak applications from Flathub
6. **Configure greetd**: Sets up greetd with DMS greeter for beautiful graphical login
7. **Setup Configs**: Symlinks `.config/niri` to your home directory with full Niri + DMS configuration
8. **Deploy DMS Configuration**: Copies DMS settings and pre-installed plugins
9. **Deploy Wallpapers**: Copies 11 desktop wallpapers to ~/Pictures/Wallpaper
10. **ASUS Laptop Support** (optional): Auto-detects ASUS laptops and offers to install asusctl, rog-control-center
11. **Hibernation Setup** (optional): Prompts to configure hibernation with 40GB swap file

On first niri login:
12. **Auto-Configure Monitors**: Automatically detects and configures all connected displays

## File Structure

```
.
├── install.sh                # Main installation script
├── packages-official.txt     # Official packages (201 packages, system-agnostic)
├── packages-hardware.txt     # Hardware-specific drivers (GPU/CPU - auto-detected!)
├── packages-aur.txt          # AUR packages (4 packages)
├── flatpaks.txt              # Flatpak applications (14 apps)
├── .config/
│   ├── niri/
│   │   ├── config.kdl        # Main niri configuration with named workspaces
│   │   ├── scripts/
│   │   │   └── configure-monitors.sh  # Automatic monitor configuration
│   │   └── dms/              # Modular config files
│   │       ├── alttab.kdl    # Alt-tab window switcher styling
│   │       ├── binds.kdl     # DMS keybindings
│   │       ├── colors.kdl    # Color scheme
│   │       ├── layout.kdl    # Layout settings
│   │       └── wpblur.kdl    # Wallpaper blur rules
│   └── DankMaterialShell/    # DMS configuration
│       ├── settings.json     # DMS settings (sanitized)
│       ├── plugin_settings.json  # Plugin configuration
│       └── plugins/          # 6 pre-installed plugins
├── etc/                      # System configuration templates
│   ├── greetd/              # greetd configuration
│   ├── asusd/               # ASUS laptop configuration
│   ├── systemd/             # Power management & hibernation config
│   └── initcpio/            # Custom hibernation resume hooks
├── scripts/
│   └── setup-hibernation.sh  # Optional hibernation setup script
├── wallpapers/              # 11 desktop wallpapers (6MB)
├── CLAUDE.md                # Repository guidance for AI assistants
├── SECURE_BOOT.md           # Detailed secure boot setup guide
├── TROUBLESHOOTING.md       # Troubleshooting guide
└── README.md                # This file
```

## Automatic Hardware Detection

The installation script automatically detects your hardware and installs the appropriate drivers:

**What gets detected:**
- **CPU**: AMD or Intel (installs appropriate microcode)
- **GPU(s)**: NVIDIA, AMD, and/or Intel (installs appropriate drivers)
- **Hybrid setups**: Automatically handles systems with multiple GPUs (e.g., Intel iGPU + NVIDIA dGPU)

**During installation:**
1. The script detects your hardware
2. Shows you what will be installed
3. Asks for confirmation before installing drivers
4. You can skip automatic detection and manually configure if needed

**Manual Override (if needed):**
If automatic detection fails or you want manual control, you can edit `packages-hardware.txt` to uncomment specific drivers, and the script will respect your manual selection.

## Automatic Monitor Configuration

The setup includes automatic monitor detection and configuration:

**First Run (Automatic):**
- On your first niri login, monitors are automatically detected
- Configuration is generated based on your displays
- Applied automatically (no confirmation needed on first run)

**Manual Re-configuration (Keybinding):**
- Press **Mod+Shift+M** to detect and reconfigure monitors anytime
- Useful when:
  - Connecting/disconnecting external displays
  - Changing monitor arrangement
  - Updating refresh rates
- Shows what will be configured and asks for confirmation

**What it does:**
- Detects all connected monitors via `niri msg outputs`
- Generates appropriate output configuration with correct resolutions and refresh rates
- Positions monitors side-by-side automatically
- Backs up your config before applying changes
- Reloads niri configuration automatically

**Manual Configuration (if needed):**
If you prefer manual control, you can still edit `~/.config/niri/config.kdl` (lines 9-32) and the auto-configuration will be skipped after first run.

## Customization

### Adding/Removing Packages

Edit the appropriate file to add or remove packages:
- `packages-official.txt` - Official Arch repository packages (system-agnostic)
- `packages-hardware.txt` - Hardware-specific GPU/CPU drivers (reference/manual override only - auto-detected by default!)
- `packages-aur.txt` - AUR packages
- `flatpaks.txt` - Flatpak applications

Lines starting with `#` are comments and will be ignored.

**Note:** Hardware drivers are automatically detected during installation, so you don't need to edit `packages-hardware.txt` unless you want to manually override the automatic detection.

### Modifying Configs

Your niri config is symlinked from this repo, so you can:

1. Edit configs in this directory
2. Commit and push changes
3. Pull on other machines and configs update automatically

Or edit at `~/.config/niri/` and changes will reflect here.

## Fresh Install Workflow

### 1. CachyOS CLI Installation

1. Boot from CachyOS installation media
2. Run the CachyOS CLI installer
3. **SKIP** desktop environment selection (we'll install Niri manually)
4. Select **Limine** as your bootloader
5. Complete base system installation
6. Reboot into your minimal CLI system

### 2. Optional: Configure Secure Boot

See [SECURE_BOOT.md](SECURE_BOOT.md) for detailed instructions on setting up secure boot with Limine.

### 3. Install Niri + DMS

```bash
# Ensure git is installed (should be from base install)
sudo pacman -S --needed git

# Clone this repo
git clone <your-repo-url> ~/niri-setup
cd ~/niri-setup

# STEP 1: Run installation script (hardware auto-detected!)
./install.sh
# The script will:
# - Detect your CPU and GPU(s)
# - Show you what drivers will be installed
# - Ask for confirmation before installing
# - Configure greetd with DMS greeter
# - Optionally set up hibernation and ASUS laptop support

# STEP 2: Reboot your system
reboot

# STEP 3: greetd with DMS greeter starts automatically
# Beautiful graphical login screen powered by DMS and niri
# Simply log in and niri will start

# STEP 4: Monitors configured automatically!
# On first login, monitors will be detected and configured automatically
# Use Mod+Shift+M anytime to re-detect and reconfigure monitors
```

## Syncing to New Machine

```bash
cd ~/niri-setup
git pull
./install.sh
```

The script will:
- Skip packages already installed
- Update symlinks if needed
- Backup existing configs before replacing

## Optional Features

### Hibernation Support

The installer offers optional hibernation setup with:
- **Auto-sized swap file** (RAM + 10% buffer) on btrfs subvolume
- **Custom initramfs hooks** for reliable resume from encrypted swap
- **Suspend-then-hibernate** (2 hour delay)
- **Lid closure integration**
- **Power management** optimized for laptops

**Requirements**: LUKS encryption, Limine bootloader, sufficient free disk space

To set up hibernation later:
```bash
sudo ~/niri-setup/scripts/setup-hibernation.sh
```

### ASUS Laptop Support

The installer auto-detects ASUS ROG laptops and offers to install:
- **asusctl** - ASUS control utility (RGB keyboard, fan profiles, etc.)
- **rog-control-center** - GUI for ASUS settings
- **supergfxctl** - GPU switching control

**Important**: The installer automatically adds your user to the `asus-users` group, which is required for controlling RGB keyboard, fan profiles, and other ASUS-specific features. You'll need to log out and back in after installation for group membership to take effect.

Includes pre-configured settings for optimal power management and RGB control via `Mod+F4` keybinding.

### Desktop Wallpapers

11 high-quality wallpapers (6MB total) are included and deployed to `~/Pictures/Wallpaper/`.

**Browse wallpapers**: Press `Mod+Y` to open the DMS wallpaper browser and select from the included wallpapers or add your own.

## DMS (DankMaterialShell) Integration

This setup uses **DMS** (dms-shell-git from AUR) as the desktop shell for Niri:

**DMS Provides**:
- Panel/status bar
- Spotlight launcher (`Super + Space`)
- Clipboard manager
- Process list
- Settings/control center
- Notifications
- Lock screen (manual + auto-lock)

**Lock Screen**:
- **Manual Lock**: Press `Mod+Alt+L` to lock immediately
- **Auto-lock**: Automatically locks after 10 minutes of inactivity
- **Before Sleep**: Automatically locks before system suspend/sleep
- Managed by `swayidle` + DMS lock integration

**Auto-startup**: DMS is managed by systemd user service (dms.service) for reliable startup

**DMS Configuration**: The installer deploys:
- Sanitized settings.json with recommended defaults
- 6 pre-installed plugins (asusControlCenter, calculator, commandRunner, etc.)
- Plugin configuration ready to use

**Note**: Most keybindings in this config use `dms ipc call` commands. If DMS is not installed, these keybindings won't work.

## Post-Installation Features

### Automatic Monitor Configuration

Monitors are configured automatically on first login! No manual configuration needed.

**Keybindings:**
- **Mod+Shift+M**: Detect and reconfigure monitors anytime
  - Useful when connecting/disconnecting displays
  - Automatically detects resolution and refresh rate
  - Positions monitors side-by-side

**Manual configuration (optional):**
If you prefer to manually configure monitors, edit `~/.config/niri/config.kdl` (lines 9-32).

### Optional Customizations

After installation, you may also want to:

- Adjust DMS theming and settings (Mod+Comma for settings)
- Configure your terminal emulator (default: kitty)
- Set up wallpaper (via DMS settings: Mod+Y)
- Review and customize keybindings in `~/.config/niri/config.kdl`

## Backup

Your original niri config (if any) is backed up to:
```
~/.config/niri.backup.YYYYMMDD_HHMMSS
```

## Troubleshooting

**niri won't start**: Check logs with `journalctl --user -u niri`

**Missing packages**: Ensure AUR helper is working: `paru --version`

**Config not updating**: Check symlink: `ls -la ~/.config/niri`

## Repository Setup

To track this as a git repository:

```bash
cd ~/niri-setup
git init
git add .
git commit -m "Initial niri setup"
git remote add origin <your-git-url>
git push -u origin main
```

## License

Feel free to use and modify as needed.
