TROUBLESHOOTING.md, before:

# Troubleshooting Guide

## Installation Script Failure Investigation (Nov 2025)

### Problem Summary

The `install.sh` script failed during initial installation, leaving the system in an incomplete state with missing packages and configurations.

### What Was Missing After Failed Installation

- ❌ `python-dlib` (1 of 4 AUR packages) - Build failure
- ❌ All 14 flatpak applications - Script exited before reaching this step
- ❌ Config symlink (`~/.config/niri`) - Script exited before creating symlink

### What DID Install Successfully

- ✅ paru (AUR helper)
- ✅ All 201 official packages
- ✅ Hardware-specific drivers (auto-detected)
- ✅ 3 of 4 AUR packages (dms-shell-git, visual-studio-code-bin, opcode-bin)
- ✅ SDDM display manager (manually enabled)

### Root Cause Analysis

**Primary Issue**: The script used `set -e` which causes immediate exit on ANY error.

**Failure Point**: `python-dlib` failed to build during AUR package installation.

**Why python-dlib Failed**:
- Build failure with GCC 15.2.1 (CachyOS uses very recent compiler)
- Compiler warnings treated as errors
- Package likely not tested with GCC 15.2.1

**Cascade Effect**:
```
1. AUR package installation starts
2. python-dlib fails to build
3. Script exits immediately (set -e)
4. Flatpak installation never runs
5. Config symlink never created
6. User left with incomplete installation
```

## Fixes Implemented

### 1. Improved Error Handling (install.sh)

**Changes Made**:
- Removed `set -e` to prevent premature exit
- Added error tracking arrays (FAILED_PACKAGES, WARNINGS)
- Install packages one-by-one instead of batch
- Log all errors to `install.log`
- Continue installation even if individual packages fail

**Code Changes**:
```bash
# Before (batch installation, fails on any error):
packages=$(grep -v '^#' "$SCRIPT_DIR/packages-aur.txt" | grep -v '^$' | tr '\n' ' ')
$AUR_HELPER -S --needed --noconfirm $packages

# After (one-by-one with error tracking):
while IFS= read -r package; do
    [[ -z "$package" || "$package" =~ ^# ]] && continue
    if $AUR_HELPER -S --needed --noconfirm "$package" >> "$INSTALL_LOG" 2>&1; then
        echo -e "${GREEN}✓ $package installed successfully${NC}"
    else
        echo -e "${RED}✗ Failed to install $package${NC}"
        FAILED_PACKAGES+=("$package (AUR)")
    fi
done < "$SCRIPT_DIR/packages-aur.txt"
```

**Benefits**:
- Script completes even if some packages fail
- Clear visibility into which packages succeeded/failed
- Detailed error logs for debugging
- More resilient and idempotent

### 2. Disabled python-dlib (packages-aur.txt)

**Change**:
```diff
  dms-shell-git
  opcode-bin
- python-dlib
+ # python-dlib  # DISABLED: Fails to build with GCC 15.2.1 (compilation warnings treated as errors)
  visual-studio-code-bin
```

**Reason**: Package incompatible with GCC 15.2.1 used in CachyOS

### 3. Added Installation Summary

**New Feature**: Script now shows clear summary at completion:
```
=== Installation Complete! ===

⚠ Some packages failed to install:
  ✗ package-name (AUR)
  ✗ another-package (flatpak)

Check the log file for details: /home/chaos/My-Arch-Niri-install/install.log

Next steps:
  1. Reboot your system
  2. SDDM will start automatically
  3. Select 'niri' from the session menu
```

## Test Results

### Script Re-run Test (Nov 23, 2025)

**Command**: `./install.sh`

**Results**:
```
✅ Hardware detection: Successful (Intel CPU, Intel GPU)
✅ Official packages: All installed (using --needed, skipped already installed)
✅ Hardware packages: Installed successfully
✅ AUR packages: 3/3 installed successfully
✅ Flatpak apps: 14/14 installed successfully
✅ Config symlink: Created successfully
   - Old config backed up to: ~/.config/niri.backup.20251123_183132
   - New symlink: ~/.config/niri -> /home/chaos/My-Arch-Niri-install/.config/niri
✅ Error summary: Displayed correctly
✅ Install log: Created with detailed output
```

**Key Improvements Verified**:
1. Script continued despite already-installed packages
2. All flatpaks installed successfully (previously failed)
3. Config symlink created (previously missing)
4. Clear error reporting
5. Idempotent - safe to re-run

## Current System State

### Installed Components
- **Official packages**: 201/201 ✅
- **AUR packages**: 3/3 ✅ (python-dlib intentionally disabled)
- **Flatpak apps**: 14/14 ✅
- **Config symlink**: Created ✅ (bidirectional sync with repo)
- **SDDM**: Enabled ✅

### Configuration
- Config location: `~/.config/niri` (symlinked to repo)
- Config backup: `~/.config/niri.backup.20251123_183132`
- Install log: `/home/chaos/My-Arch-Niri-install/install.log`

## Common Issues & Solutions

### Issue: "sudo: a terminal is required to read the password"

**Cause**: Script requires sudo for package installation but doesn't have terminal access

**Solution**: Run script interactively from a terminal:
```bash
./install.sh
```

### Issue: Flatpak apps not installing

**Cause**: Script exited before reaching flatpak installation step

**Solution**: Fixed in latest version - script now continues even if earlier steps fail

### Issue: Config changes not syncing

**Cause**: `~/.config/niri` is a directory instead of symlink

**Solution**: Script now automatically creates symlink (backs up existing config first)

### Issue: python-dlib build failure

**Cause**: Incompatible with GCC 15.2.1

**Solution**: Package disabled in `packages-aur.txt`. If needed in future:
1. Wait for upstream fix
2. Use older GCC version
3. Patch build warnings

## Monitoring Installation

### Check Installation Log
```bash
tail -f ~/My-Arch-Niri-install/install.log
```

### Verify Installed Packages
```bash
# Check AUR packages
pacman -Q dms-shell-git visual-studio-code-bin opcode-bin

# Check flatpaks
flatpak list --app

# Verify SDDM
systemctl is-enabled sddm
```

### Check Config Symlink
```bash
ls -la ~/.config/niri
# Should show: niri -> /home/chaos/My-Arch-Niri-install/.config/niri
```

## Prevention for Future Installations

### Pre-Installation Checklist
1. ✅ Running on Arch Linux or CachyOS
2. ✅ Internet connection available
3. ✅ User has sudo privileges
4. ✅ Sufficient disk space (at least 5GB free)

### Post-Installation Verification
```bash
# Run this after installation completes
./install.sh  # Should skip already-installed packages
niri validate ~/.config/niri/config.kdl  # Verify config syntax
systemctl is-enabled sddm  # Verify SDDM enabled
```

## Lessons Learned

1. **Don't use `set -e` for installation scripts** - Individual package failures shouldn't abort entire installation
2. **Install packages one-by-one** - Better error tracking and recovery
3. **Always log errors** - Critical for debugging failed installations
4. **Make scripts idempotent** - Safe to re-run without side effects
5. **Test with real compiler versions** - Newer distributions may have incompatible toolchains

## Git Commits

All fixes committed and pushed to GitHub:

**Commit**: `018039e`
**Message**: "fix: improve install script resilience and disable python-dlib"
**Changes**:
- Modified `install.sh` (error handling improvements)
- Modified `packages-aur.txt` (disabled python-dlib)

## Additional Resources

- **Repository**: https://github.com/kernalpanic-nick/My-Arch-Niri-install
- **Install log**: `./install.log` (created during installation)
- **Niri documentation**: https://github.com/YaLTeR/niri
- **CachyOS**: https://cachyos.org/

## Support

If you encounter issues:

1. Check `install.log` for detailed error messages
2. Review this troubleshooting guide
3. Ensure all prerequisites are met
4. Try re-running the script (it's idempotent)
5. Report issues on GitHub with log file attached

## greetd Display Manager Issues

### greetd Service Won't Start

**Symptoms**:
- System boots to TTY instead of graphical greeter
- `systemctl status greetd` shows failed or inactive

**Checks**:
```bash
# Check greetd service status
systemctl status greetd

# Check greetd logs
journalctl -u greetd -b

# Verify greetd configuration
cat /etc/greetd/config.toml

# Check if greeter user exists
id greeter
```

**Common Fixes**:
1. **Greeter user doesn't exist**:
   ```bash
   sudo useradd -M -G video greeter
   sudo systemctl restart greetd
   ```

2. **Configuration file missing**:
   ```bash
   sudo cp ~/niri-setup/etc/greetd/config.toml /etc/greetd/
   sudo systemctl restart greetd
   ```

3. **DMS greeter not installed**:
   ```bash
   paru -S greetd-dms-greeter-git
   sudo systemctl restart greetd
   ```

### DMS Greeter Shows Black Screen

**Checks**:
```bash
# Check if niri is installed
which niri

# Check DMS greeter logs
journalctl -u greetd -b | grep dms-greeter

# Verify video group membership
groups greeter | grep video
```

**Fix**:
```bash
# Add greeter to video group if missing
sudo usermod -a -G video greeter
sudo systemctl restart greetd
```

## Hibernation Issues

### Hibernation Not Available

**Symptoms**:
- `systemctl hibernate` fails
- `/sys/power/state` doesn't include "disk"

**Checks**:
```bash
# Check if resume device is set
cat /sys/power/resume  # Should show major:minor (e.g., 253:0), NOT 0:0

# Check resume offset
cat /sys/power/resume_offset  # Should show swap file offset

# Check available power states
cat /sys/power/state  # Should include: freeze mem disk

# Check boot parameters
cat /proc/cmdline | grep resume

# Check swap status
swapon --show

# Check if resume-manual hook is in initramfs
lsinitcpio /boot/initramfs-linux-cachyos.img | grep resume-manual
```

**Common Fixes**:

1. **Resume device not set** (`/sys/power/resume` shows `0:0`):
   - Run hibernation setup script again:
     ```bash
     sudo ~/niri-setup/scripts/setup-hibernation.sh
     ```
   - Reboot to load new initramfs

2. **Swap file not created**:
   ```bash
   # Verify swap file exists
   ls -lh /swap/swapfile
   # Should be 40GB, owned by root with 600 permissions
   ```

3. **Resume hook missing from initramfs**:
   ```bash
   # Check mkinitcpio.conf
   grep "^HOOKS=" /etc/mkinitcpio.conf | grep resume-manual
   # Should include resume-manual after encrypt hook
   
   # If missing, regenerate initramfs
   sudo mkinitcpio -P
   ```

### Hibernation Image Not Found on Resume

**Symptoms**:
- System hibernates successfully
- On boot, system doesn't resume (normal boot instead)
- Kernel log shows "PM: Image not found (code -16)"

**Root Cause**: Swap activated too early, destroying hibernation image

**Checks**:
```bash
# Check if swap is marked as noauto in fstab
grep swap /etc/fstab  # Should show "noauto"

# Check if swapon-after-resume service exists and is enabled
systemctl status swapon-after-resume.service

# Check boot logs for swap activation
journalctl -b | grep -i "swap\|hibernat"
```

**Fix**:
```bash
# Ensure swap is noauto in fstab
sudo sed -i 's|/swap/swapfile.*|/swap/swapfile none swap noauto 0 0|' /etc/fstab

# Create and enable swapon-after-resume service
sudo cp ~/niri-setup/etc/systemd/system/swapon-after-resume.service /etc/systemd/system/
sudo systemctl daemon-reload
sudo systemctl enable swapon-after-resume.service

# Reboot and test again
```

### Test Hibernation

After fixing issues, test hibernation:

```bash
# 1. Save all work and close applications

# 2. Hibernate
systemctl hibernate

# 3. Power on system

# 4. Check if session resumed
# - All applications should still be open
# - Terminal history preserved
# - No login prompt (direct resume)

# 5. Verify logs
journalctl -b -1 | grep -i "hibernat\|resume"
```

## ASUS Laptop Issues

### asusctl Service Won't Start

**Checks**:
```bash
# Check asusd service status
systemctl status asusd

# Check logs
journalctl -u asusd -b

# Verify asusctl is installed
which asusctl
asusctl --version
```

**Common Fixes**:
1. **Service not enabled**:
   ```bash
   sudo systemctl enable --now asusd
   ```

2. **Configuration issues**:
   ```bash
   # Reset to default config
   sudo cp ~/niri-setup/etc/asusd/asusd.ron /etc/asusd/
   sudo systemctl restart asusd
   ```

### RGB Keyboard Controls Not Working

**Symptoms**:
- `Mod+F4` doesn't cycle RGB modes
- `asusctl` commands fail

**Checks**:
```bash
# Test asusctl manually
asusctl aura -n

# Check if asusd is running
systemctl status asusd

# Check device permissions
ls -l /sys/class/leds/
```

**Fix**:
```bash
# Restart asusd service
sudo systemctl restart asusd

# Test RGB control
asusctl aura static -c ff0000  # Should show red

# If still not working, check dmesg for errors
dmesg | grep -i asus
```

### ROG Control Center Won't Launch

**Checks**:
```bash
# Verify installation
which rog-control-center

# Try launching from terminal to see errors
rog-control-center

# Check dependencies
paru -Q rog-control-center
```

**Fix**:
```bash
# Reinstall if needed
paru -S rog-control-center

# Ensure asusd is running
sudo systemctl start asusd
```

## DMS Plugin Issues

### Plugins Not Loading

**Symptoms**:
- Plugins don't appear in DMS bar
- Plugin settings show as disabled

**Checks**:
```bash
# Verify plugins directory
ls -la ~/.config/DankMaterialShell/plugins/

# Check plugin_settings.json
cat ~/.config/DankMaterialShell/plugin_settings.json

# Check DMS logs
journalctl --user -u dms -b
```

**Fix**:
```bash
# Re-deploy DMS configuration
cp -r ~/niri-setup/.config/DankMaterialShell/* ~/.config/DankMaterialShell/

# Restart DMS
systemctl --user restart dms
```

### ASUS Control Center Plugin Not Working

**Specific to asusControlCenter plugin**:

**Checks**:
```bash
# Verify asusd is running
systemctl status asusd

# Check plugin exists
ls ~/.config/DankMaterialShell/plugins/asusControlCenter/

# Ensure plugin is enabled
grep -A2 asusControlCenter ~/.config/DankMaterialShell/plugin_settings.json
```

**Fix**:
```bash
# Enable plugin if disabled
# Edit ~/.config/DankMaterialShell/plugin_settings.json
# Set "asusControlCenter": { "enabled": true }

# Restart DMS
systemctl --user restart dms
```

## General Debugging Commands

### Check All Critical Services

```bash
# Display manager
systemctl status greetd

# Niri compositor
systemctl --user status niri

# DMS shell
systemctl --user status dms

# ASUS control (if ASUS laptop)
systemctl status asusd
```

### View Recent Logs

```bash
# System boot log
journalctl -b

# Specific service logs
journalctl -u greetd -b
journalctl --user -u niri -b
journalctl --user -u dms -b
journalctl -u asusd -b

# Hibernation/resume logs
journalctl -b | grep -i "hibernat\|resume"
```

### Configuration Files to Check

```bash
# greetd
/etc/greetd/config.toml

# Niri
~/.config/niri/config.kdl

# DMS
~/.config/DankMaterialShell/settings.json
~/.config/DankMaterialShell/plugin_settings.json

# ASUS
/etc/asusd/asusd.ron

# Hibernation
/etc/fstab (swap noauto)
/etc/mkinitcpio.conf (resume-manual hook)
/boot/limine.conf (resume parameters)
/etc/systemd/logind.conf.d/power-management.conf
/etc/systemd/sleep.conf.d/hibernate-delay.conf
```

Commit message:

fix: add users to asus-users group for ASUS hardware control
ASUS Hardware Support:
- Automatically create asus-users group if it doesn't exist
- Add current user to asus-users group during installation
- Required for controlling RGB keyboard, fan profiles, and other features
- Notify user that logout/login is required for group changes

Documentation Updates:
- Added troubleshooting section for ASUS permission issues
- Updated README with asus-users group information
- Explained group membership requirement in installation docs

Without this group membership, users would get permission denied errors
when trying to use asusctl commands for RGB control, fan profiles, etc.

TROUBLESHOOTING.md, after:

# Troubleshooting Guide

## Installation Script Failure Investigation (Nov 2025)

### Problem Summary

The `install.sh` script failed during initial installation, leaving the system in an incomplete state with missing packages and configurations.

### What Was Missing After Failed Installation

- ❌ `python-dlib` (1 of 4 AUR packages) - Build failure
- ❌ All 14 flatpak applications - Script exited before reaching this step
- ❌ Config symlink (`~/.config/niri`) - Script exited before creating symlink

### What DID Install Successfully

- ✅ paru (AUR helper)
- ✅ All 201 official packages
- ✅ Hardware-specific drivers (auto-detected)
- ✅ 3 of 4 AUR packages (dms-shell-git, visual-studio-code-bin, opcode-bin)
- ✅ SDDM display manager (manually enabled)

### Root Cause Analysis

**Primary Issue**: The script used `set -e` which causes immediate exit on ANY error.

**Failure Point**: `python-dlib` failed to build during AUR package installation.

**Why python-dlib Failed**:
- Build failure with GCC 15.2.1 (CachyOS uses very recent compiler)
- Compiler warnings treated as errors
- Package likely not tested with GCC 15.2.1

**Cascade Effect**:
```
1. AUR package installation starts
2. python-dlib fails to build
3. Script exits immediately (set -e)
4. Flatpak installation never runs
5. Config symlink never created
6. User left with incomplete installation
```

## Fixes Implemented

### 1. Improved Error Handling (install.sh)

**Changes Made**:
- Removed `set -e` to prevent premature exit
- Added error tracking arrays (FAILED_PACKAGES, WARNINGS)
- Install packages one-by-one instead of batch
- Log all errors to `install.log`
- Continue installation even if individual packages fail

**Code Changes**:
```bash
# Before (batch installation, fails on any error):
packages=$(grep -v '^#' "$SCRIPT_DIR/packages-aur.txt" | grep -v '^$' | tr '\n' ' ')
$AUR_HELPER -S --needed --noconfirm $packages

# After (one-by-one with error tracking):
while IFS= read -r package; do
    [[ -z "$package" || "$package" =~ ^# ]] && continue
    if $AUR_HELPER -S --needed --noconfirm "$package" >> "$INSTALL_LOG" 2>&1; then
        echo -e "${GREEN}✓ $package installed successfully${NC}"
    else
        echo -e "${RED}✗ Failed to install $package${NC}"
        FAILED_PACKAGES+=("$package (AUR)")
    fi
done < "$SCRIPT_DIR/packages-aur.txt"
```

**Benefits**:
- Script completes even if some packages fail
- Clear visibility into which packages succeeded/failed
- Detailed error logs for debugging
- More resilient and idempotent

### 2. Disabled python-dlib (packages-aur.txt)

**Change**:
```diff
  dms-shell-git
  opcode-bin
- python-dlib
+ # python-dlib  # DISABLED: Fails to build with GCC 15.2.1 (compilation warnings treated as errors)
  visual-studio-code-bin
```

**Reason**: Package incompatible with GCC 15.2.1 used in CachyOS

### 3. Added Installation Summary

**New Feature**: Script now shows clear summary at completion:
```
=== Installation Complete! ===

⚠ Some packages failed to install:
  ✗ package-name (AUR)
  ✗ another-package (flatpak)

Check the log file for details: /home/chaos/My-Arch-Niri-install/install.log

Next steps:
  1. Reboot your system
  2. SDDM will start automatically
  3. Select 'niri' from the session menu
```

## Test Results

### Script Re-run Test (Nov 23, 2025)

**Command**: `./install.sh`

**Results**:
```
✅ Hardware detection: Successful (Intel CPU, Intel GPU)
✅ Official packages: All installed (using --needed, skipped already installed)
✅ Hardware packages: Installed successfully
✅ AUR packages: 3/3 installed successfully
✅ Flatpak apps: 14/14 installed successfully
✅ Config symlink: Created successfully
   - Old config backed up to: ~/.config/niri.backup.20251123_183132
   - New symlink: ~/.config/niri -> /home/chaos/My-Arch-Niri-install/.config/niri
✅ Error summary: Displayed correctly
✅ Install log: Created with detailed output
```

**Key Improvements Verified**:
1. Script continued despite already-installed packages
2. All flatpaks installed successfully (previously failed)
3. Config symlink created (previously missing)
4. Clear error reporting
5. Idempotent - safe to re-run

## Current System State

### Installed Components
- **Official packages**: 201/201 ✅
- **AUR packages**: 3/3 ✅ (python-dlib intentionally disabled)
- **Flatpak apps**: 14/14 ✅
- **Config symlink**: Created ✅ (bidirectional sync with repo)
- **SDDM**: Enabled ✅

### Configuration
- Config location: `~/.config/niri` (symlinked to repo)
- Config backup: `~/.config/niri.backup.20251123_183132`
- Install log: `/home/chaos/My-Arch-Niri-install/install.log`

## Common Issues & Solutions

### Issue: "sudo: a terminal is required to read the password"

**Cause**: Script requires sudo for package installation but doesn't have terminal access

**Solution**: Run script interactively from a terminal:
```bash
./install.sh
```

### Issue: Flatpak apps not installing

**Cause**: Script exited before reaching flatpak installation step

**Solution**: Fixed in latest version - script now continues even if earlier steps fail

### Issue: Config changes not syncing

**Cause**: `~/.config/niri` is a directory instead of symlink

**Solution**: Script now automatically creates symlink (backs up existing config first)

### Issue: python-dlib build failure

**Cause**: Incompatible with GCC 15.2.1

**Solution**: Package disabled in `packages-aur.txt`. If needed in future:
1. Wait for upstream fix
2. Use older GCC version
3. Patch build warnings

## Monitoring Installation

### Check Installation Log
```bash
tail -f ~/My-Arch-Niri-install/install.log
```

### Verify Installed Packages
```bash
# Check AUR packages
pacman -Q dms-shell-git visual-studio-code-bin opcode-bin

# Check flatpaks
flatpak list --app

# Verify SDDM
systemctl is-enabled sddm
```

### Check Config Symlink
```bash
ls -la ~/.config/niri
# Should show: niri -> /home/chaos/My-Arch-Niri-install/.config/niri
```

## Prevention for Future Installations

### Pre-Installation Checklist
1. ✅ Running on Arch Linux or CachyOS
2. ✅ Internet connection available
3. ✅ User has sudo privileges
4. ✅ Sufficient disk space (at least 5GB free)

### Post-Installation Verification
```bash
# Run this after installation completes
./install.sh  # Should skip already-installed packages
niri validate ~/.config/niri/config.kdl  # Verify config syntax
systemctl is-enabled sddm  # Verify SDDM enabled
```

## Lessons Learned

1. **Don't use `set -e` for installation scripts** - Individual package failures shouldn't abort entire installation
2. **Install packages one-by-one** - Better error tracking and recovery
3. **Always log errors** - Critical for debugging failed installations
4. **Make scripts idempotent** - Safe to re-run without side effects
5. **Test with real compiler versions** - Newer distributions may have incompatible toolchains

## Git Commits

All fixes committed and pushed to GitHub:

**Commit**: `018039e`
**Message**: "fix: improve install script resilience and disable python-dlib"
**Changes**:
- Modified `install.sh` (error handling improvements)
- Modified `packages-aur.txt` (disabled python-dlib)

## Additional Resources

- **Repository**: https://github.com/kernalpanic-nick/My-Arch-Niri-install
- **Install log**: `./install.log` (created during installation)
- **Niri documentation**: https://github.com/YaLTeR/niri
- **CachyOS**: https://cachyos.org/

## Support

If you encounter issues:

1. Check `install.log` for detailed error messages
2. Review this troubleshooting guide
3. Ensure all prerequisites are met
4. Try re-running the script (it's idempotent)
5. Report issues on GitHub with log file attached

## greetd Display Manager Issues

### greetd Service Won't Start

**Symptoms**:
- System boots to TTY instead of graphical greeter
- `systemctl status greetd` shows failed or inactive

**Checks**:
```bash
# Check greetd service status
systemctl status greetd

# Check greetd logs
journalctl -u greetd -b

# Verify greetd configuration
cat /etc/greetd/config.toml

# Check if greeter user exists
id greeter
```

**Common Fixes**:
1. **Greeter user doesn't exist**:
   ```bash
   sudo useradd -M -G video greeter
   sudo systemctl restart greetd
   ```

2. **Configuration file missing**:
   ```bash
   sudo cp ~/niri-setup/etc/greetd/config.toml /etc/greetd/
   sudo systemctl restart greetd
   ```

3. **DMS greeter not installed**:
   ```bash
   paru -S greetd-dms-greeter-git
   sudo systemctl restart greetd
   ```

### DMS Greeter Shows Black Screen

**Checks**:
```bash
# Check if niri is installed
which niri

# Check DMS greeter logs
journalctl -u greetd -b | grep dms-greeter

# Verify video group membership
groups greeter | grep video
```

**Fix**:
```bash
# Add greeter to video group if missing
sudo usermod -a -G video greeter
sudo systemctl restart greetd
```

## Hibernation Issues

### Hibernation Not Available

**Symptoms**:
- `systemctl hibernate` fails
- `/sys/power/state` doesn't include "disk"

**Checks**:
```bash
# Check if resume device is set
cat /sys/power/resume  # Should show major:minor (e.g., 253:0), NOT 0:0

# Check resume offset
cat /sys/power/resume_offset  # Should show swap file offset

# Check available power states
cat /sys/power/state  # Should include: freeze mem disk

# Check boot parameters
cat /proc/cmdline | grep resume

# Check swap status
swapon --show

# Check if resume-manual hook is in initramfs
lsinitcpio /boot/initramfs-linux-cachyos.img | grep resume-manual
```

**Common Fixes**:

1. **Resume device not set** (`/sys/power/resume` shows `0:0`):
   - Run hibernation setup script again:
     ```bash
     sudo ~/niri-setup/scripts/setup-hibernation.sh
     ```
   - Reboot to load new initramfs

2. **Swap file not created**:
   ```bash
   # Verify swap file exists
   ls -lh /swap/swapfile
   # Should be 40GB, owned by root with 600 permissions
   ```

3. **Resume hook missing from initramfs**:
   ```bash
   # Check mkinitcpio.conf
   grep "^HOOKS=" /etc/mkinitcpio.conf | grep resume-manual
   # Should include resume-manual after encrypt hook
   
   # If missing, regenerate initramfs
   sudo mkinitcpio -P
   ```

### Hibernation Image Not Found on Resume

**Symptoms**:
- System hibernates successfully
- On boot, system doesn't resume (normal boot instead)
- Kernel log shows "PM: Image not found (code -16)"

**Root Cause**: Swap activated too early, destroying hibernation image

**Checks**:
```bash
# Check if swap is marked as noauto in fstab
grep swap /etc/fstab  # Should show "noauto"

# Check if swapon-after-resume service exists and is enabled
systemctl status swapon-after-resume.service

# Check boot logs for swap activation
journalctl -b | grep -i "swap\|hibernat"
```

**Fix**:
```bash
# Ensure swap is noauto in fstab
sudo sed -i 's|/swap/swapfile.*|/swap/swapfile none swap noauto 0 0|' /etc/fstab

# Create and enable swapon-after-resume service
sudo cp ~/niri-setup/etc/systemd/system/swapon-after-resume.service /etc/systemd/system/
sudo systemctl daemon-reload
sudo systemctl enable swapon-after-resume.service

# Reboot and test again
```

### Test Hibernation

After fixing issues, test hibernation:

```bash
# 1. Save all work and close applications

# 2. Hibernate
systemctl hibernate

# 3. Power on system

# 4. Check if session resumed
# - All applications should still be open
# - Terminal history preserved
# - No login prompt (direct resume)

# 5. Verify logs
journalctl -b -1 | grep -i "hibernat\|resume"
```

## ASUS Laptop Issues

### RGB/Fan Controls Not Working (Permission Denied)

**Symptom**: `asusctl` commands fail with permission errors or don't change settings

**Cause**: User not in `asus-users` group

**Fix**:
```bash
# Check if user is in asus-users group
groups | grep asus-users

# If not, add user to group
sudo usermod -aG asus-users $USER

# Log out and back in for changes to take effect
# Or use newgrp to activate group temporarily:
newgrp asus-users

# Verify group membership
groups
```

**Note**: The install script automatically adds users to the `asus-users` group, but you need to log out/in for it to take effect.

### asusctl Service Won't Start

**Checks**:
```bash
# Check asusd service status
systemctl status asusd

# Check logs
journalctl -u asusd -b

# Verify asusctl is installed
which asusctl
asusctl --version

# Ensure asus-users group exists
getent group asus-users
```

**Common Fixes**:
1. **Service not enabled**:
   ```bash
   sudo systemctl enable --now asusd
   ```

2. **Configuration issues**:
   ```bash
   # Reset to default config
   sudo cp ~/niri-setup/etc/asusd/asusd.ron /etc/asusd/
   sudo systemctl restart asusd
   ```

### RGB Keyboard Controls Not Working

**Symptoms**:
- `Mod+F4` doesn't cycle RGB modes
- `asusctl` commands fail

**Checks**:
```bash
# Test asusctl manually
asusctl aura -n

# Check if asusd is running
systemctl status asusd

# Check device permissions
ls -l /sys/class/leds/
```

**Fix**:
```bash
# Restart asusd service
sudo systemctl restart asusd

# Test RGB control
asusctl aura static -c ff0000  # Should show red

# If still not working, check dmesg for errors
dmesg | grep -i asus
```

### ROG Control Center Won't Launch

**Checks**:
```bash
# Verify installation
which rog-control-center

# Try launching from terminal to see errors
rog-control-center

# Check dependencies
paru -Q rog-control-center
```

**Fix**:
```bash
# Reinstall if needed
paru -S rog-control-center

# Ensure asusd is running
sudo systemctl start asusd
```

## DMS Plugin Issues

### Plugins Not Loading

**Symptoms**:
- Plugins don't appear in DMS bar
- Plugin settings show as disabled

**Checks**:
```bash
# Verify plugins directory
ls -la ~/.config/DankMaterialShell/plugins/

# Check plugin_settings.json
cat ~/.config/DankMaterialShell/plugin_settings.json

# Check DMS logs
journalctl --user -u dms -b
```

**Fix**:
```bash
# Re-deploy DMS configuration
cp -r ~/niri-setup/.config/DankMaterialShell/* ~/.config/DankMaterialShell/

# Restart DMS
systemctl --user restart dms
```

### ASUS Control Center Plugin Not Working

**Specific to asusControlCenter plugin**:

**Checks**:
```bash
# Verify asusd is running
systemctl status asusd

# Check plugin exists
ls ~/.config/DankMaterialShell/plugins/asusControlCenter/

# Ensure plugin is enabled
grep -A2 asusControlCenter ~/.config/DankMaterialShell/plugin_settings.json
```

**Fix**:
```bash
# Enable plugin if disabled
# Edit ~/.config/DankMaterialShell/plugin_settings.json
# Set "asusControlCenter": { "enabled": true }

# Restart DMS
systemctl --user restart dms
```

## General Debugging Commands

### Check All Critical Services

```bash
# Display manager
systemctl status greetd

# Niri compositor
systemctl --user status niri

# DMS shell
systemctl --user status dms

# ASUS control (if ASUS laptop)
systemctl status asusd
```

### View Recent Logs

```bash
# System boot log
journalctl -b

# Specific service logs
journalctl -u greetd -b
journalctl --user -u niri -b
journalctl --user -u dms -b
journalctl -u asusd -b

# Hibernation/resume logs
journalctl -b | grep -i "hibernat\|resume"
```

### Configuration Files to Check

```bash
# greetd
/etc/greetd/config.toml

# Niri
~/.config/niri/config.kdl

# DMS
~/.config/DankMaterialShell/settings.json
~/.config/DankMaterialShell/plugin_settings.json

# ASUS
/etc/asusd/asusd.ron

# Hibernation
/etc/fstab (swap noauto)
/etc/mkinitcpio.conf (resume-manual hook)
/boot/limine.conf (resume parameters)
/etc/systemd/logind.conf.d/power-management.conf
/etc/systemd/sleep.conf.d/hibernate-delay.conf
```
